<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2><p epub:type="title">Honourable Engagement</p></hgroup>
<p>
For days, after joining the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, Alvina was very quiet, subdued,
and rather remote, sensible of her humiliating position as a hanger-on. They
none of them took much notice of her. They drifted on, rather disjointedly. The
cordiality, the <i>joie de vivre</i> did not revive. Madame was a little
irritable, and very exacting, and inclined to be spiteful. Ciccio went his way
with Geoffrey.
</p>
<p>
In the second week, Madame found out that a man had been surreptitiously
inquiring about them at their lodgings, from the landlady and the landlady’s
blowsy daughter. It must have been a detective—some shoddy detective.
Madame waited. Then she sent Max over to Mansfield, on some fictitious errand.
Yes, the lousy-looking dogs of detectives had been there too, making the most
minute enquiries as to the behaviour of the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, what they did,
how their sleeping was arranged, how Madame addressed the men, what attitude
the men took towards Alvina.
</p>
<p>
Madame waited again. And again, when they moved to Doncaster, the same two
mongrel-looking fellows were lurking in the street, and plying the inmates of
their lodging-house with questions. All the Natchas caught sight of the men.
And Madame cleverly wormed out of the righteous and respectable landlady what
the men had asked. Once more it was about the sleeping
accommodation—whether the landlady heard anything in the
night—whether she noticed anything in the bedrooms, in the beds.
</p>
<p>
No doubt about it, the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras were under suspicion. They were being
followed, and watched. What for? Madame made a shrewd guess. “They want to say
we are immoral foreigners,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“But what have our personal morals got to do with them?” said Max angrily.
</p>
<p>
“Yes—but the English! They are so pure,” said Madame.
</p>
<p>
“You know,” said Louis, “somebody must have put them up to it—”
</p>
<p>
“Perhaps,” said Madame, “somebody on account of Allaye.”
</p>
<p>
Alvina went white.
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” said Geoffrey. “White Slave Traffic! Mr. May said it.”
</p>
<p>
Madame slowly nodded.
</p>
<p>
“Mr. May!” she said. “Mr. May! It is he. He knows all about morals—and
immorals. Yes, I know. Yes—yes—yes! He suspects all our immoral
doings, <i>mes braves</i>.”
</p>
<p>
“But there aren’t any, except mine,” cried Alvina, pale to the lips.
</p>
<p>
“You! You! There you are!” Madame smiled archly, and rather mockingly.
</p>
<p>
“What are we to do?” said Max, pale on the cheekbones.
</p>
<p>
“Curse them! Curse them!” Louis was muttering, in his rolling accent.
</p>
<p>
“Wait,” said Madame. “Wait. They will not do anything to us. You are only dirty
foreigners, <i>mes braves</i>. At the most they will ask us only to leave their
pure country.”
</p>
<p>
“We don’t interfere with none of them,” cried Max.
</p>
<p>
“Curse them,” muttered Louis.
</p>
<p>
“Never mind, <i>mon cher</i>. You are in a pure country. Let us wait.”
</p>
<p>
“If you think it’s me,” said Alvina, “I can go away.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh, my dear, you are only the excuse,” said Madame, smiling indulgently at
her. “Let us wait, and see.”
</p>
<p>
She took it smilingly. But her cheeks were white as paper, and her eyes black
as drops of ink, with anger.
</p>
<p>
“Wait and see!” she chanted ironically. “Wait and see! If we must leave the
dear country—then <i>adieu!</i>” And she gravely bowed to an imaginary
England.
</p>
<p>
“I feel it’s my fault. I feel I ought to go away,” cried Alvina, who was
terribly distressed, seeing Madame’s glitter and pallor, and the black brows of
the men. Never had Ciccio’s brow looked so ominously black. And Alvina felt it
was all her fault. Never had she experienced such a horrible feeling: as if
something repulsive were creeping on her from behind. Every minute of these
weeks was a horror to her: the sense of the low-down dogs of detectives hanging
round, sliding behind them, trying to get hold of some clear proof of
immorality on their part. And then—the unknown vengeance of the
authorities. All the repulsive secrecy, and all the absolute power of the
police authorities. The sense of a great malevolent power which had them all
the time in its grip, and was watching, feeling, waiting to strike the morbid
blow: the sense of the utter helplessness of individuals who were not even
accused, only watched and enmeshed! the feeling that they, the
Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, herself included, must be monsters of hideous vice, to have
provoked all this: and yet the sane knowledge that they, none of them,
<i>were</i> monsters of vice; this was quite killing. The sight of a policeman
would send up Alvina’s heart in a flame of fear, agony; yet she knew she had
nothing legally to be afraid of. Every knock at the door was horrible.
</p>
<p>
She simply could not understand it. Yet there it was: they were watched,
followed. Of that there was no question. And all she could imagine was that the
troupe was secretly accused of White Slave Traffic by somebody in Woodhouse.
Probably Mr. May had gone the round of the benevolent magnates of Woodhouse,
concerning himself with her virtue, and currying favour with his concern. Of
this she became convinced, that it was concern for her virtue which had started
the whole business: and that the first instigator was Mr. May, who had got
round some vulgar magistrate or County Councillor.
</p>
<p>
Madame did not consider Alvina’s view very seriously. She thought it was some
personal malevolence against the Tawaras themselves, probably put up by some
other professionals, with whom Madame was not popular.
</p>
<p>
Be that as it may, for some weeks they went about in the shadow of this
repulsive finger which was following after them, to touch them and destroy them
with the black smear of shame. The men were silent and inclined to be sulky.
They seemed to hold together. They seemed to be united into a strong,
four-square silence and tension. They kept to themselves—and Alvina kept
to herself—and Madame kept to herself. So they went about.
</p>
<p>
And slowly the cloud melted. It never broke. Alvina felt that the very force of
the sullen, silent fearlessness and fury in the Tawaras had prevented its
bursting. Once there had been a weakening, a cringing, they would all have been
lost. But their hearts hardened with black, indomitable anger. And the cloud
melted, it passed away. There was no sign.
</p>
<p>
Early summer was now at hand. Alvina no longer felt at home with the Natchas.
While the trouble was hanging over, they seemed to ignore her altogether. The
men hardly spoke to her. They hardly spoke to Madame, for that matter. They
kept within the four-square enclosure of themselves.
</p>
<p>
But Alvina felt herself particularly excluded, left out. And when the trouble
of the detectives began to pass off, and the men became more cheerful again,
wanted her to jest and be familiar with them, she responded verbally, but in
her heart there was no response.
</p>
<p>
Madame had been quite generous with her. She allowed her to pay for her room,
and the expense of travelling. But she had her food with the rest. Wherever she
was, Madame bought the food for the party, and cooked it herself. And Alvina
came in with the rest: she paid no board.
</p>
<p>
She waited, however, for Madame to suggest a small salary—or at least,
that the troupe should pay her living expenses. But Madame did not make such a
suggestion. So Alvina knew that she was not very badly wanted. And she guarded
her money, and watched for some other opportunity.
</p>
<p>
It became her habit to go every morning to the public library of the town in
which she found herself, to look through the advertisements: advertisements for
maternity nurses, for nursery governesses, pianists, travelling companions,
even ladies’ maids. For some weeks she found nothing, though she wrote several
letters.
</p>
<p>
One morning Ciccio, who had begun to hang round her again, accompanied her as
she set out to the library. But her heart was closed against him.
</p>
<p>
“Why are you going to the library?” he asked her. It was in Lancaster.
</p>
<p>
“To look at the papers and magazines.”
</p>
<p>
“Ha-a! To find a job, eh?”
</p>
<p>
His cuteness startled her for a moment.
</p>
<p>
“If I found one I should take it,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Hé! I know that,” he said.
</p>
<p>
It so happened that that very morning she saw on the notice-board of the
library an announcement that the Borough Council wished to engage the services
of an experienced maternity nurse, applications to be made to the medical
board. Alvina wrote down the directions. Ciccio watched her.
</p>
<p>
“What is a maternity nurse?” he said.
</p>
<p>
“An <i>accoucheuse</i>!” she said. “The nurse who attends when babies are
born.”
</p>
<p>
“Do you know how to do that?” he said, incredulous, and jeering slightly.
</p>
<p>
“I was trained to do it,” she said.
</p>
<p>
He said no more, but walked by her side as she returned to the lodgings. As
they drew near the lodgings, he said:
</p>
<p>
“You don’t want to stop with us any more?”
</p>
<p>
“I can’t,” she said.
</p>
<p>
He made a slight, mocking gesture.
</p>
<p>
“‘I can’t,’” he repeated. “Why do you always say you can’t?”
</p>
<p>
“Because I can’t,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Pff—!” he went, with a whistling sound of contempt.
</p>
<p>
But she went indoors to her room. Fortunately, when she had finally cleared her
things from Manchester House, she had brought with her her nurse’s certificate,
and recommendations from doctors. She wrote out her application, took the tram
to the Town Hall and dropped it in the letterbox there. Then she wired home to
her doctor for another reference. After which she went to the library and got
out a book on her subject. If summoned, she would have to go before the medical
board on Monday. She had a week. She read and pondered hard, recalling all her
previous experience and knowledge.
</p>
<p>
She wondered if she ought to appear before the board in uniform. Her nurse’s
dresses were packed in her trunk at Mrs. Slaney’s, in Woodhouse. It was now
May. The whole business at Woodhouse was finished. Manchester House and all the
furniture was sold to some boot-and-shoe people: at least the boot-and-shoe
people had the house. They had given four thousand pounds for it—which
was above the lawyer’s estimate. On the other hand, the theatre was sold for
almost nothing. It all worked out that some thirty-three pounds, which the
creditors made up to fifty pounds, remained for Alvina. She insisted on Miss
Pinnegar’s having half of this. And so that was all over. Miss Pinnegar was
already in Tamworth, and her little shop would be opened next week. She wrote
happily and excitedly about it.
</p>
<p>
Sometimes fate acts swiftly and without a hitch. On Thursday Alvina received
her notice that she was to appear before the Board on the following Monday. And
yet she could not bring herself to speak of it to Madame till the Saturday
evening. When they were all at supper, she said:
</p>
<p>
“Madame, I applied for a post of maternity nurse, to the Borough of Lancaster.”
</p>
<p>
Madame raised her eyebrows. Ciccio had said nothing.
</p>
<p>
“Oh really! You never told me.”
</p>
<p>
“I thought it would be no use if it all came to nothing. They want me to go and
see them on Monday, and then they will decide—”
</p>
<p>
“Really! Do they! On Monday? And then if you get this work you will stay here?
Yes?”
</p>
<p>
“Yes, of course.”
</p>
<p>
“Of course! Of course! Yes! H’m! And if not?”
</p>
<p>
The two women looked at each other.
</p>
<p>
“What?” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“If you <i>don’t</i> get it—! You are not <i>sure</i>?”
</p>
<p>
“No,” said Alvina. “I am not a bit sure.”
</p>
<p>
“Well then—! Now! And if you don’t get it—?”
</p>
<p>
“What shall I do, you mean?”
</p>
<p>
“Yes, what shall you do?”
</p>
<p>
“I don’t know.”
</p>
<p>
“How! you don’t know! Shall you come back to us, then?”
</p>
<p>
“I will if you like—”
</p>
<p>
“If I like! If <i>I</i> like! Come, it is not a question of if <i>I</i> like.
It is what do you want to do yourself.”
</p>
<p>
“I feel you don’t want me very badly,” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Why? Why do you feel? Who makes you? Which of us makes you feel so? Tell me.”
</p>
<p>
“Nobody in particular. But I feel it.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh we-ell! If nobody makes you, and yet you feel it, it must be in yourself,
don’t you see? Eh? Isn’t it so?”
</p>
<p>
“Perhaps it is,” admitted Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“We-ell then! We-ell—” So Madame gave her her congé. “But if you like to
come back—if you <i>laike</i>—then—” Madame shrugged her
shoulders—“you must come, I suppose.”
</p>
<p>
“Thank you,” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
The young men were watching. They seemed indifferent. Ciccio turned aside, with
his faint, stupid smile.
</p>
<p>
In the morning Madame gave Alvina all her belongings, from the little safe she
called her bank.
</p>
<p>
“There is the money—so—and so—and so—that is correct.
Please count it once more!—” Alvina counted it and kept it clutched in
her hand. “And there are your rings, and your chain, and your
locket—see—all—everything—! But not the brooch. Where
is the brooch? Here! Shall I give it back, hein?”
</p>
<p>
“I gave it to you,” said Alvina, offended. She looked into Madame’s black eyes.
Madame dropped her eyes.
</p>
<p>
“Yes, you gave it. But I thought, you see, as you have now not much mo-oney,
perhaps you would like to take it again—”
</p>
<p>
“No, thank you,” said Alvina, and she went away, leaving Madame with the red
brooch in her plump hand.
</p>
<p>
“Thank goodness I’ve given her something valuable,” thought Alvina to herself,
as she went trembling to her room.
</p>
<p>
She had packed her bag. She had to find new rooms. She bade good-bye to the
Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. Her face was cold and distant, but she smiled slightly as
she bade them good-bye.
</p>
<p>
“And perhaps,” said Madame, “per-haps you will come to Wigan tomorrow
afternoon—or evening? Yes?”
</p>
<p>
“Thank you,” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
She went out and found a little hotel, where she took her room for the night,
explaining the cause of her visit to Lancaster. Her heart was hard and burning.
A deep, burning, silent anger against everything possessed her, and a profound
indifference to mankind.
</p>
<p>
And therefore, the next day, everything went as if by magic. She had decided
that at the least sign of indifference from the medical board people she would
walk away, take her bag, and go to Windermere. She had never been to the Lakes.
And Windermere was not far off. She would not endure one single hint of
contumely from any one else. She would go straight to Windermere, to see the
big lake. Why not do as she wished! She could be quite happy by herself among
the lakes. And she would be absolutely free, absolutely free. She rather looked
forward to leaving the Town Hall, hurrying to take her bag and off to the
station and freedom. Hadn’t she still got about a hundred pounds? Why bother
for one moment? To be quite alone in the whole world—and quite, quite
free, with her hundred pounds—the prospect attracted her sincerely.
</p>
<p>
And therefore, everything went charmingly at the Town Hall. The medical board
were charming to her—charming. There was no hesitation at all. From the
first moment she was engaged. And she was given a pleasant room in a hospital
in a garden, and the matron was charming to her, and the doctors most
courteous.
</p>
<p>
When could she undertake to commence her duties? When did they want her? The
very <i>moment</i> she could come. She could begin tomorrow—but she had
no uniform. Oh, the matron would lend her uniform and aprons, till her box
arrived.
</p>
<p>
So there she was—by afternoon installed in her pleasant little room
looking on the garden, and dressed in a nurse’s uniform. It was all sudden like
magic. She had wired to Madame, she had wired for her box. She was another
person.
</p>
<p>
Needless to say, she was glad. Needless to say that, in the morning, when she
had thoroughly bathed, and dressed in clean clothes, and put on the white
dress, the white apron, and the white cap, she felt another person. So clean,
she felt, so thankful! Her skin seemed caressed and live with cleanliness and
whiteness, luminous she felt. It was so different from being with the Natchas.
</p>
<p>
In the garden the snowballs, guelder-roses, swayed softly among green foliage,
there was pink may-blossom, and single scarlet may-blossom, and underneath the
young green of the trees, irises rearing purple and moth-white. A young
gardener was working—and a convalescent slowly trailed a few paces.
</p>
<p>
Having ten minutes still, Alvina sat down and wrote to Ciccio: “I am glad I
have got this post as nurse here. Every one is most kind, and I feel at home
already. I feel quite happy here. I shall think of my days with the
Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, and of you, who were such a stranger to me.
Good-bye.—A. H.”
</p>
<p>
This she addressed and posted. No doubt Madame would find occasion to read it.
But let her.
</p>
<p>
Alvina now settled down to her new work. There was of course a great deal to
do, for she had work both in the hospital and out in the town, though chiefly
out in the town. She went rapidly from case to case, as she was summoned. And
she was summoned at all hours. So that it was tiring work, which left her no
time to herself, except just in snatches.
</p>
<p>
She had no serious acquaintance with anybody, she was too busy. The matron and
sisters and doctors and patients were all part of her day’s work, and she
regarded them as such. The men she chiefly ignored: she felt much more friendly
with the matron. She had many a cup of tea and many a chat in the matron’s
room, in the quiet, sunny afternoons when the work was not pressing. Alvina
took her quiet moments when she could: for she never knew when she would be
rung up by one or other of the doctors in the town.
</p>
<p>
And so, from the matron, she learned to crochet. It was work she had never
taken to. But now she had her ball of cotton and her hook, and she worked away
as she chatted. She was in good health, and she was getting fatter again. With
the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, she had improved a good deal, her colour and her
strength had returned. But undoubtedly the nursing life, arduous as it was,
suited her best. She became a handsome, reposeful woman, jolly with the other
nurses, really happy with her friend the matron, who was well-bred and wise,
and never over-intimate.
</p>
<p>
The doctor with whom Alvina had most to do was a Dr. Mitchell, a Scotchman. He
had a large practice among the poor, and was an energetic man. He was about
fifty-four years old, tall, largely-built, with a good figure, but with
extraordinarily large feet and hands. His face was red and clean-shaven, his
eyes blue, his teeth very good. He laughed and talked rather mouthingly.
Alvina, who knew what the nurses told her, knew that he had come as a poor boy
and bottle-washer to Dr. Robertson, a fellow-Scotchman, and that he had made
his way up gradually till he became a doctor himself, and had an independent
practice. Now he was quite rich—and a bachelor. But the nurses did not
set their bonnets at him very much, because he was rather mouthy and
overbearing.
</p>
<p>
In the houses of the poor he was a great autocrat.
</p>
<p>
“What is that stuff you’ve got there!” he inquired largely, seeing a bottle of
somebody’s Soothing Syrup by a poor woman’s bedside. “Take it and throw it down
the sink, and the next time you want a soothing syrup put a little
boot-blacking in hot water. It’ll do you just as much good.”
</p>
<p>
Imagine the slow, pompous, large-mouthed way in which the red-faced,
handsomely-built man pronounced these words, and you realize why the poor set
such store by him.
</p>
<p>
He was eagle-eyed. Wherever he went, there was a scuffle directly his foot was
heard on the stairs. And he knew they were hiding something. He sniffed the
air: he glanced round with a sharp eye: and during the course of his visit
picked up a blue mug which was pushed behind the looking-glass. He peered
inside—and smelled it.
</p>
<p>
“Stout?” he said, in a tone of indignant inquiry: God-Almighty would presumably
take on just such a tone, finding the core of an apple flung away among the
dead-nettle of paradise: “Stout! Have you been drinking stout?” This as he
gazed down on the wan mother in the bed.
</p>
<p>
“They gave me a drop, doctor. I felt that low.”
</p>
<p>
The doctor marched out of the room, still holding the mug in his hand. The sick
woman watched him with haunted eyes. The attendant women threw up their hands
and looked at one another. Was he going for ever? There came a sudden smash.
The doctor had flung the blue mug downstairs. He returned with a solemn stride.
</p>
<p>
“There!” he said. “And the next person that gives you stout will be thrown down
along with the mug.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh doctor, the bit o’ comfort!” wailed the sick woman. “It ud never do me no
harm.”
</p>
<p>
“Harm! Harm! With a stomach as weak as yours! Harm! Do you know better than I
do? What have I come here for? To be told by <i>you</i> what will do you harm
and what won’t? It appears to me you need no doctor here, you know everything
already—”
</p>
<p>
“Oh no, doctor. It’s not like that. But when you feel as if you’d sink through
the bed, an’ you don’t know what to do with yourself—”
</p>
<p>
“Take a little beef-tea, or a little rice pudding. Take <i>nourishment</i>,
don’t take that muck. Do you hear—” charging upon the attendant women,
who shrank against the wall—“she’s to have nothing alcoholic at all, and
don’t let me catch you giving it her.”
</p>
<p>
“They say there’s nobbut fower per cent. i’ stout,” retorted the daring female.
</p>
<p>
“Fower per cent.,” mimicked the doctor brutally. “Why, what does an ignorant
creature like <i>you</i> know about fower per cent.”
</p>
<p>
The woman muttered a little under her breath.
</p>
<p>
“What? Speak out. Let me hear what you’ve got to say, my woman. I’ve no doubt
it’s something for my benefit—”
</p>
<p>
But the affronted woman rushed out of the room, and burst into tears on the
landing. After which Dr. Mitchell, mollified, largely told the patient how she
was to behave, concluding:
</p>
<p>
“Nourishment! Nourishment is what you want. Nonsense, don’t tell me you can’t
take it. Push it down if it won’t go down by itself—”
</p>
<p>
“Oh doctor—”
</p>
<p>
“Don’t say <i>oh doctor</i> to me. Do as I tell you. That’s <i>your</i>
business.” After which he marched out, and the rattle of his motor car was
shortly heard.
</p>
<p>
Alvina got used to scenes like these. She wondered why the people stood it. But
soon she realized that they loved it—particularly the women.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, nurse, stop till Dr. Mitchell’s been. I’m scared to death of him, for fear
he’s going to shout at me.”
</p>
<p>
“Why does everybody put up with him?” asked innocent Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, he’s good-hearted, nurse, he <i>does</i> feel for you.”
</p>
<p>
And everywhere it was the same: “Oh, he’s got a heart, you know. He’s rough,
but he’s got a heart. I’d rather have him than your smarmy slormin sort. Oh,
you feel safe with Dr. Mitchell, I don’t care what you say.”
</p>
<p>
But to Alvina this peculiar form of blustering, bullying heart which had all
the women scurrying like chickens was not particularly attractive.
</p>
<p>
The men did not like Dr. Mitchell, and would not have him if possible. Yet
since he was club doctor and panel doctor, they had to submit. The first thing
he said to a sick or injured labourer, invariably, was:
</p>
<p>
“And keep off the beer.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh ay!”
</p>
<p>
“Keep off the beer, or I shan’t set foot in this house again.”
</p>
<p>
“Tha’s got a red enough face on thee, tha nedna shout.”
</p>
<p>
“My face is red with exposure to all weathers, attending ignorant people like
you. I never touch alcohol in any form.”
</p>
<p>
“No, an’ I dunna. I drink a drop o’ beer, if that’s what you ca’ touchin’
alcohol. An’ I’m none th’ wuss for it, tha sees.”
</p>
<p>
“You’ve heard what I’ve told you.”
</p>
<p>
“Ah, I have.”
</p>
<p>
“And if you go on with the beer, you may go on with curing yourself. <i>I</i>
shan’t attend you. You know I mean what I say, Mrs. Larrick”—this to the
wife.
</p>
<p>
“I do, doctor. And I know it’s true what you say. An’ I’m at him night an’ day
about it—”
</p>
<p>
“Oh well, if he will hear no reason, he must suffer for it. He mustn’t think
<i>I’m</i> going to be running after him, if he disobeys my orders.” And the
doctor stalked off, and the woman began to complain.
</p>
<p>
None the less the women had their complaints against Dr. Mitchell. If ever
Alvina entered a clean house on a wet day, she was sure to hear the housewife
chuntering.
</p>
<p>
“Oh my lawk, come in nurse! What a day! Doctor’s not been yet. And he’s bound
to come now I’ve just cleaned up, trapesin’ wi’ his gret feet. He’s got the
biggest understandin’s of any man i’ Lancaster. My husband says they’re the
best pair o’ pasties i’ th’ kingdom. An’ he does make such a mess, for he never
stops to wipe his feet on th’ mat, marches straight up your clean
stairs—”
</p>
<p>
“Why don’t you tell him to wipe his feet?” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Oh my word! Fancy me telling him! He’d jump down my throat with both feet
afore I’d opened my mouth. He’s not to be spoken to, he isn’t. He’s my-lord, he
is. You mustn’t look, or you’re done for.”
</p>
<p>
Alvina laughed. She knew they all liked him for browbeating them, and having a
heart over and above.
</p>
<p>
Sometimes he was given a good hit—though nearly always by a man. It
happened he was in a workman’s house when the man was at dinner.
</p>
<p>
“Canna yer gi’e a man summat better nor this ’ere pap, Missis?” said the hairy
husband, turning up his nose at the rice pudding.
</p>
<p>
“Oh go on,” cried the wife. “I hadna time for owt else.” Dr. Mitchell was just
stooping his handsome figure in the doorway.
</p>
<p>
“Rice pudding!” he exclaimed largely. “You couldn’t have anything more
wholesome and nourishing. I have a rice pudding every day of my
life—every day of my life, I do.”
</p>
<p>
The man was eating his pudding and pearling his big moustache copiously with
it. He did not answer.
</p>
<p>
“Do you doctor!” cried the woman. “And never no different.”
</p>
<p>
“Never,” said the doctor.
</p>
<p>
“Fancy that! You’re that fond of them?”
</p>
<p>
“I find they agree with me. They are light and digestible. And my stomach is as
weak as a baby’s.”
</p>
<p>
The labourer wiped his big moustache on his sleeve.
</p>
<p>
“Mine <i>isna</i>, tha sees,” he said, “so pap’s no use. ’S watter ter me. I
want ter feel as I’ve had summat: a bit o’ suetty dumplin’ an’ a pint o’ hale,
summat ter fill th’ hole up. An’ tha’d be th’ same if tha did my work.”
</p>
<p>
“If I did your work,” sneered the doctor. “Why I do ten times the work that any
one of you does. It’s just the work that has ruined my digestion, the never
getting a quiet meal, and never a whole night’s rest. When do you think
<i>I</i> can sit at table and digest my dinner? I have to be off looking after
people like you—”
</p>
<p>
“Eh, tha can ta’e th’ titty-bottle wi’ thee,” said the labourer.
</p>
<p>
But Dr. Mitchell was furious for weeks over this. It put him in a black rage to
have his great manliness insulted. Alvina was quietly amused.
</p>
<p>
The doctor began by being rather lordly and condescending with her. But luckily
she felt she knew her work at least as well as he knew it. She smiled and let
him condescend. Certainly she neither feared nor even admired him. To tell the
truth, she rather disliked him: the great, red-faced bachelor of fifty-three,
with his bald spot and his stomach as weak as a baby’s, and his mouthing
imperiousness and his good heart which was as selfish as it could be. Nothing
can be more cocksuredly selfish than a good heart which believes in its own
beneficence. He was a little too much the teetotaller on the one hand to be so
largely manly on the other. Alvina preferred the labourers with their awful
long moustaches that got full of food. And he was a little too loud-mouthedly
lordly to be in human good taste.
</p>
<p>
As a matter of fact, he was conscious of the fact that he had risen to be a
gentleman. Now if a man is conscious of being a <i>gentleman</i>, he is bound
to be a little less than a <i>man</i>. But if he is gnawed with anxiety lest he
may <i>not</i> be a gentleman, he is only pitiable. There is a third case,
however. If a man must loftily, by his manner, assert that he is <i>now</i> a
gentleman, he shows himself a clown. For Alvina, poor Dr. Mitchell fell into
this third category, of clowns. She tolerated him good-humouredly, as women so
often tolerate ninnies and <i>poseurs</i>. She smiled to herself when she saw
his large and important presence on the board. She smiled when she saw him at a
sale, buying the grandest pieces of antique furniture. She smiled when he
talked of going up to Scotland, for grouse shooting, or of snatching an hour on
Sunday morning, for golf. And she talked him over, with quiet, delicate malice,
with the matron. He was no favourite at the hospital.
</p>
<p>
Gradually Dr. Mitchell’s manner changed towards her. From his imperious
condescension he took to a tone of uneasy equality. This did not suit him. Dr.
Mitchell had no equals: he had only the vast stratum of inferiors, towards whom
he exercised his quite profitable beneficence—it brought him in about two
thousand a year: and then his superiors, people who had been born with money.
It was the tradesmen and professionals who had started at the bottom and
clambered to the motor-car footing, who distressed him. And therefore, whilst
he treated Alvina on this uneasy tradesman footing, he felt himself in a false
position.
</p>
<p>
She kept her attitude of quiet amusement, and little by little he sank. From
being a lofty creature soaring over her head, he was now like a big fish poking
its nose above water and making eyes at her. He treated her with rather
presuming deference.
</p>
<p>
“You look tired this morning,” he barked at her one hot day.
</p>
<p>
“I think it’s thunder,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Thunder! Work, you mean,” and he gave a slight smile. “I’m going to drive you
back.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh no, thanks, don’t trouble! I’ve got to call on the way.”
</p>
<p>
“Where have you got to call?”
</p>
<p>
She told him.
</p>
<p>
“Very well. That takes you no more than five minutes. I’ll wait for you. Now
take your cloak.”
</p>
<p>
She was surprised. Yet, like other women, she submitted.
</p>
<p>
As they drove he saw a man with a barrow of cucumbers. He stopped the car and
leaned towards the man.
</p>
<p>
“Take that barrow-load of poison and <i>bury</i> it!” he shouted, in his strong
voice. The busy street hesitated.
</p>
<p>
“What’s that, mister?” replied the mystified hawker.
</p>
<p>
Dr. Mitchell pointed to the green pile of cucumbers.
</p>
<p>
“Take that barrow-load of poison, and bury it,” he called, “before you do
anybody any more harm with it.”
</p>
<p>
“What barrow-load of poison’s that?” asked the hawker, approaching. A crowd
began to gather.
</p>
<p>
“What barrow-load of poison is that!” repeated the doctor. “Why your
barrow-load of cucumbers.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh,” said the man, scrutinizing his cucumbers carefully. To be sure, some were
a little yellow at the end. “How’s that? Cumbers is right enough: fresh from
market this morning.”
</p>
<p>
“Fresh or not fresh,” said the doctor, mouthing his words distinctly, “you
might as well put poison into your stomach, as those things. Cucumbers are the
worst thing you can eat.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh!” said the man, stuttering. “That’s ’appen for them as doesn’t like them. I
niver knowed a cumber do <i>me</i> no harm, an’ I eat ’em like a happle.”
Whereupon the hawker took a “cumber” from his barrow, bit off the end, and
chewed it till the sap squirted. “What’s wrong with that?” he said, holding up
the bitten cucumber.
</p>
<p>
“I’m not talking about what’s wrong with that,” said the doctor. “My business
is what’s wrong with the stomach it goes into. I’m a doctor. And I know that
those things cause me half my work. They cause half the internal troubles
people suffer from in summertime.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh ay! That’s no loss to you, is it? Me an’ you’s partners. More cumbers I
sell, more graft for you, ’cordin’ to that. What’s wrong then. <i>Cum-bers!
Fine fresh Cum-berrrs! All fresh and juisty, all cheap and tasty—!</i>”
yelled the man.
</p>
<p>
“I am a doctor not only to cure illness, but to prevent it where I can. And
cucumbers are poison to everybody.”
</p>
<p>
“<i>Cum-bers! Cum-bers! Fresh cumbers!</i>” yelled the man,
</p>
<p>
Dr. Mitchell started his car.
</p>
<p>
“When will they learn intelligence?” he said to Alvina, smiling and showing his
white, even teeth.
</p>
<p>
“I don’t care, you know, myself,” she said. “I should always let people do what
they wanted—”
</p>
<p>
“Even if you knew it would do them harm?” he queried, smiling with amiable
condescension.
</p>
<p>
“Yes, why not! It’s their own affair. And they’ll do themselves harm one way or
another.”
</p>
<p>
“And you wouldn’t try to prevent it?”
</p>
<p>
“You might as well try to stop the sea with your fingers.”
</p>
<p>
“You think so?” smiled the doctor. “I see, you are a pessimist. You are a
pessimist with regard to human nature.”
</p>
<p>
“Am I?” smiled Alvina, thinking the rose would smell as sweet. It seemed to
please the doctor to find that Alvina was a pessimist with regard to human
nature. It seemed to give her an air of distinction. In his eyes, she
<i>seemed</i> distinguished. He was in a fair way to dote on her.
</p>
<p>
She, of course, when he began to admire her, liked him much better, and even
saw graceful, boyish attractions in him. There was really something childish
about him. And this something childish, since it looked up to her as if she
were the saving grace, naturally flattered her and made her feel gentler
towards him.
</p>
<p>
He got in the habit of picking her up in his car, when he could. And he would
tap at the matron’s door, smiling and showing all his beautiful teeth, just
about tea-time.
</p>
<p>
“May I come in?” His voice sounded almost flirty.
</p>
<p>
“Certainly.”
</p>
<p>
“I see you’re having tea! Very nice, a cup of tea at this hour!”
</p>
<p>
“Have one too, doctor.”
</p>
<p>
“I will with pleasure.” And he sat down wreathed with smiles. Alvina rose to
get a cup. “I didn’t intend to disturb you, nurse,” he said. “Men are always
intruders,” he smiled to the matron.
</p>
<p>
“Sometimes,” said the matron, “women are charmed to be intruded upon.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh really!” his eyes sparkled. “Perhaps <i>you</i> wouldn’t say so, nurse?” he
said, turning to Alvina. Alvina was just reaching at the cupboard. Very
charming she looked, in her fresh dress and cap and soft brown hair, very
attractive her figure, with its full, soft loins. She turned round to him.
</p>
<p>
“Oh yes,” she said. “I quite agree with the matron.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh, you do!” He did not quite know how to take it. “But you mind being
disturbed at your tea, I am sure.”
</p>
<p>
“No,” said Alvina. “We are so used to being disturbed.”
</p>
<p>
“Rather weak, doctor?” said the matron, pouring the tea.
</p>
<p>
“Very weak, please.”
</p>
<p>
The doctor was a little laboured in his gallantry, but unmistakably gallant.
When he was gone, the matron looked demure, and Alvina confused. Each waited
for the other to speak.
</p>
<p>
“Don’t you think Dr. Mitchell is quite coming out?” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Quite! <i>Quite</i> the ladies’ man! I wonder who it is can be <i>bringing</i>
him out. A very praiseworthy work, I am sure.” She looked wickedly at Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“No, don’t look at me,” laughed Alvina, “<i>I</i> know nothing about it.”
</p>
<p>
“Do you think it may be <i>me</i>!” said the matron, mischievous.
</p>
<p>
“I’m sure of it, matron! He begins to show some taste at last.”
</p>
<p>
“There now!” said the matron. “I shall put my cap straight.” And she went to
the mirror, fluffing her hair and settling her cap.
</p>
<p>
“There!” she said, bobbing a little curtsey to Alvina.
</p>
<p>
They both laughed, and went off to work.
</p>
<p>
But there was no mistake, Dr. Mitchell was beginning to expand. With Alvina he
quite unbent, and seemed even to sun himself when she was near, to attract her
attention. He smiled and smirked and became oddly self-conscious: rather
uncomfortable. He liked to hang over her chair, and he made a great event of
offering her a cigarette whenever they met, although he himself never smoked.
He had a gold cigarette case.
</p>
<p>
One day he asked her in to see his garden. He had a pleasant old square house
with a big walled garden. He showed her his flowers and his wall-fruit, and
asked her to eat his strawberries. He bade her admire his asparagus. And then
he gave her tea in the drawing-room, with strawberries and cream and cakes, of
all of which he ate nothing. But he smiled expansively all the time. He was a
made man: and now he was really letting himself go, luxuriating in everything;
above all, in Alvina, who poured tea gracefully from the old Georgian tea-pot,
and smiled so pleasantly above the Queen Anne tea-cups.
</p>
<p>
And she, wicked that she was, admired every detail of his drawing-room. It was
a pleasant room indeed, with roses outside the French door, and a lawn in
sunshine beyond, with bright red flowers in beds. But indoors, it was
insistently antique. Alvina admired the Jacobean sideboard and the Jacobean
arm-chairs and the Hepplewhite wall-chairs and the Sheraton settee and the
Chippendale stands and the Axminster carpet and the bronze clock with
Shakespeare and Ariosto reclining on it—yes, she even admired Shakespeare
on the clock—and the ormolu cabinet and the bead-work foot-stools and the
dreadful Sèvres dish with a cherub in it and—but why enumerate. She
admired <i>everything</i>! And Dr. Mitchell’s heart expanded in his bosom till
he felt it would burst, unless he either fell at her feet or did something
extraordinary. He had never even imagined what it was to be so expanded: what a
delicious feeling. He could have kissed her feet in an ecstasy of wild
expansion. But habit, so far, prevented his doing more than beam.
</p>
<p>
Another day he said to her, when they were talking of age:
</p>
<p>
“You are as young as you feel. Why, when I was twenty I felt I had all the
cares and responsibility of the world on my shoulders. And now I am middle-aged
more or less, I feel as light as if I were just beginning life.” He beamed down
at her.
</p>
<p>
“Perhaps you <i>are</i> only just beginning your <i>own</i> life,” she said.
“You have lived for your work till now.”
</p>
<p>
“It may be that,” he said. “It may be that up till now I have lived for others,
for my patients. And now perhaps I may be allowed to live a little more for
myself.” He beamed with real luxury, saw the real luxury of life begin.
</p>
<p>
“Why shouldn’t you?” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Oh yes, I intend to,” he said, with confidence.
</p>
<p>
He really, by degrees, made up his mind to marry now, and to retire in part
from his work. That is, he would hire another assistant, and give himself a
fair amount of leisure. He was inordinately proud of his house. And now he
looked forward to the treat of his life: hanging round the woman he had made
his wife, following her about, feeling proud of her and his house, talking to
her from morning till night, really finding himself in her. When he had to go
his rounds she would go with him in the car: he made up his mind she would be
willing to accompany him. He would teach her to drive, and they would sit side
by side, she driving him and waiting for him. And he would run out of the
houses of his patients, and find her sitting there, and he would get in beside
her and feel so snug and so sure and so happy as she drove him off to the next
case, he informing her about his work.
</p>
<p>
And if ever she did not go out with him, she would be there on the doorstep
waiting for him the moment she heard the car. And they would have long, cosy
evenings together in the drawing-room, as he luxuriated in her very presence.
She would sit on his knees and they would be snug for hours, before they went
warmly and deliciously to bed. And in the morning he need not rush off. He
would loiter about with her, they would loiter down the garden looking at every
new flower and every new fruit, she would wear fresh flowery dresses and no cap
on her hair, he would never be able to tear himself away from her. Every
morning it would be unbearable to have to tear himself away from her, and every
hour he would be rushing back to her. They would be simply everything to one
another. And how he would enjoy it! Ah!
</p>
<p>
He pondered as to whether he would have children. A child would take her away
from him. That was his first thought. But then—! Ah well, he would have
to leave it till the time. Love’s young dream is never so delicious as at the
virgin age of fifty-three.
</p>
<p>
But he was quite cautious. He made no definite advances till he had put a plain
question. It was August Bank Holiday, that for ever black day of the
declaration of war, when his question was put. For this year of our story is
the fatal year 1914.
</p>
<p>
There was quite a stir in the town over the declaration of war. But most people
felt that the news was only intended to give an extra thrill to the
all-important event of Bank Holiday. Half the world had gone to Blackpool or
Southport, the other half had gone to the Lakes or into the country. Lancaster
was busy with a sort of fête, notwithstanding. And as the weather was decent,
everybody was in a real holiday mood.
</p>
<p>
So that Dr. Mitchell, who had contrived to pick up Alvina at the Hospital,
contrived to bring her to his house at half-past three, for tea.
</p>
<p>
“What do you think of this new war?” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, it will be over in six weeks,” said the doctor easily. And there they left
it. Only, with a fleeting thought, Alvina wondered if it would affect the
Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. She had never heard any more of them.
</p>
<p>
“Where would you have liked to go today?” said the doctor, turning to smile at
her as he drove the car.
</p>
<p>
“I think to Windermere—into the Lakes,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“We might make a tour of the Lakes before long,” he said. She was not thinking,
so she took no particular notice of the speech.
</p>
<p>
“How nice!” she said vaguely.
</p>
<p>
“We could go in the car, and take them as we chose,” said the doctor.
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” she said, wondering at him now.
</p>
<p>
When they had had tea, quietly and gallantly tête-à-tête in his drawing-room,
he asked her if she would like to see the other rooms of the house. She thanked
him, and he showed her the substantial oak dining-room, and the little room
with medical works and a revolving chair, which he called his study: then the
kitchen and the pantry, the housekeeper looking askance; then upstairs to his
bedroom, which was very fine with old mahogany tall-boys and silver
candle-sticks on the dressing-table, and brushes with green ivory backs, and a
hygienic white bed and straw mats: then the visitors’ bedroom corresponding,
with its old satin-wood furniture and cream-coloured chairs with large,
pale-blue cushions, and a pale carpet with reddish wreaths. Very nice, lovely,
awfully nice, I do like that, isn’t that beautiful, I’ve never seen anything
like that! came the gratifying fireworks of admiration from Alvina. And he
smiled and gloated. But in her mind she was thinking of Manchester House, and
how dark and horrible it was, how she hated it, but how it had impressed Ciccio
and Geoffrey, how they would have loved to feel themselves masters of it, and
how done in the eye they were. She smiled to herself rather grimly. For this
afternoon she was feeling unaccountably uneasy and wistful, yearning into the
distance again: a trick she thought she had happily lost.
</p>
<p>
The doctor dragged her up even to the slanting attics. He was a big man, and he
always wore navy blue suits, well-tailored and immaculate. Unconsciously she
felt that big men in good navy-blue suits, especially if they had reddish faces
and rather big feet and if their hair was wearing thin, were a special type all
to themselves, solid and rather namby-pamby and tiresome.
</p>
<p>
“What very nice attics! I think the many angles which the roof makes, the
different slants, you know, are so attractive. Oh, and the fascinating little
window!” She crouched in the hollow of the small dormer window. “Fascinating!
See the town and the hills! I know I should want this room for my own.”
</p>
<p>
“Then have it,” he said. “Have it for <i>one</i> of your own.”
</p>
<p>
She crept out of the window recess and looked up at him. He was leaning forward
to her, smiling, self-conscious, tentative, and eager. She thought it best to
laugh it off.
</p>
<p>
“I was only talking like a child, from the imagination,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“I quite understand that,” he replied deliberately. “But I am speaking what I
<i>mean</i>—”
</p>
<p>
She did not answer, but looked at him reproachfully. He was smiling and
smirking broadly at her.
</p>
<p>
“Won’t you marry me, and come and have this garret for your own?” He spoke as
if he were offering her a chocolate. He smiled with curious uncertainty.
</p>
<p>
“I don’t know,” she said vaguely.
</p>
<p>
His smile broadened.
</p>
<p>
“Well now,” he said, “make up your mind. I’m not good at <i>talking</i> about
love, you know. But I think I’m pretty good at <i>feeling</i> it, you know. I
want you to come here and be happy: with me.” He added the two last words as a
sort of sly post-scriptum, and as if to commit himself finally.
</p>
<p>
“But I’ve never thought about it,” she said, rapidly cogitating.
</p>
<p>
“I know you haven’t. But think about it now—” He began to be hugely
pleased with himself. “Think about it now. And tell me if you could put up with
<i>me</i>, as well as the garret.” He beamed and put his head a little on one
side—rather like Mr. May, for one second. But he was much more dangerous
than Mr. May. He was overbearing, and had the devil’s own temper if he was
thwarted. This she knew. He was a big man in a navy blue suit, with very white
teeth.
</p>
<p>
Again she thought she had better laugh it off.
</p>
<p>
“It’s you I <i>am</i> thinking about,” she laughed, flirting still. “It’s you I
<i>am</i> wondering about.”
</p>
<p>
“Well,” he said, rather pleased with himself, “you wonder about me till you’ve
made up your mind—”
</p>
<p>
“I will—” she said, seizing the opportunity. “I’ll wonder about you till
I’ve made up my mind—shall I?”
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” he said. “That’s what I wish you to do. And the next time I ask you,
you’ll let me know. That’s it, isn’t it?” He smiled indulgently down on her:
thought her face young and charming, charming.
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” she said. “But don’t ask me too soon, will you?”
</p>
<p>
“How, too soon—?” He smiled delightedly.
</p>
<p>
“You’ll give me time to wonder about you, won’t you? You won’t ask me again
this month, will you?”
</p>
<p>
“This month?” His eyes beamed with pleasure. He enjoyed the procrastination as
much as she did. “But the month’s only just begun! However! Yes, you shall have
your way. I won’t ask you again this month.”
</p>
<p>
“And I’ll promise to wonder about you all the month,” she laughed.
</p>
<p>
“That’s a bargain,” he said.
</p>
<p>
They went downstairs, and Alvina returned to her duties. She was very much
excited, very much excited indeed. A big, well-to-do man in a navy blue suit,
of handsome appearance, aged fifty-three, with white teeth and a delicate
stomach: it <i>was</i> exciting. A sure position, a very nice home and lovely
things in it, once they were dragged about a bit. And of course he’d adore her.
That went without saying. She was as fussy as if some one had given her a
lovely new pair of boots. She was really fussy and pleased with herself: and
<i>quite</i> decided she’d take it all on. That was how it put itself to her:
she would take it all on.
</p>
<p>
Of course there was the man himself to consider. But he was quite presentable.
There was nothing at all against it: nothing at all. If he had pressed her
during the first half of the month of August, he would almost certainly have
got her. But he only beamed in anticipation.
</p>
<p>
Meanwhile the stir and restlessness of the war had begun, and was making itself
felt even in Lancaster. And the excitement and the unease began to wear through
Alvina’s rather glamorous fussiness. Some of her old fretfulness came back on
her. Her spirit, which had been as if asleep these months, now woke rather
irritably, and chafed against its collar. Who was this elderly man, that she
should marry him? Who was he, that she should be kissed by him. Actually kissed
and fondled by him! Repulsive. She avoided him like the plague. Fancy reposing
against his broad, navy blue waistcoat! She started as if she had been stung.
Fancy seeing his red, smiling face just above hers, coming down to embrace her!
She pushed it away with her open hand. And she ran away, to avoid the thought.
</p>
<p>
And yet! And yet! She would be so comfortable, she would be so well-off for the
rest of her life. The hateful problem of material circumstance would be solved
for ever. And she knew well how hateful material circumstances can make life.
</p>
<p>
Therefore, she could not decide in a hurry. But she bore poor Dr. Mitchell a
deep grudge, that he could not grant her all the advantages of his offer, and
excuse her the acceptance of him himself. She dared not decide in a hurry. And
this very fear, like a yoke on her, made her resent the man who drove her to
decision.
</p>
<p>
Sometimes she rebelled. Sometimes she laughed unpleasantly in the man’s face:
though she dared not go <i>too</i> far: for she was a little afraid of him and
his rabid temper, also. In her moments of sullen rebellion she thought of
Natcha-Kee-Tawara. She thought of them deeply. She wondered where they were,
what they were doing, how the war had affected them. Poor Geoffrey was a
Frenchman—he would have to go to France to fight. Max and Louis were
Swiss, it would not affect them: nor Ciccio, who was Italian. She wondered if
the troupe was in England: if they would continue together when Geoffrey was
gone. She wondered if they thought of her. She felt they did. She felt they did
not forget her. She felt there was a connection.
</p>
<p>
In fact, during the latter part of August she wondered a good deal more about
the Natchas than about Dr. Mitchell. But wondering about the Natchas would not
help her. She felt, if she knew where they were, she would fly to them. But
then she knew she wouldn’t.
</p>
<p>
When she was at the station she saw crowds and bustle. People were seeing their
young men off. Beer was flowing: sailors on the train were tipsy: women were
holding young men by the lapel of the coat. And when the train drew away, the
young men waving, the women cried aloud and sobbed after them.
</p>
<p>
A chill ran down Alvina’s spine. This was another matter, apart from her Dr.
Mitchell. It made him feel very unreal, trivial. She did not know what she was
going to do. She realized she must do something—take some part in the
wild dislocation of life. She knew that she would put off Dr. Mitchell again.
</p>
<p>
She talked the matter over with the matron. The matron advised her to
procrastinate. Why not volunteer for war-service? True, she was a maternity
nurse, and this was hardly the qualification needed for the nursing of
soldiers. But still, she <i>was</i> a nurse.
</p>
<p>
Alvina felt this was the thing to do. Everywhere was a stir and a seethe of
excitement. Men were active, women were needed too. She put down her name on
the list of volunteers for active service. This was on the last day of August.
</p>
<p>
On the first of September Dr. Mitchell was round at the hospital early, when
Alvina was just beginning her morning duties there. He went into the matron’s
room, and asked for Nurse Houghton. The matron left them together.
</p>
<p>
The doctor was excited. He smiled broadly, but with a tension of nervous
excitement. Alvina was troubled. Her heart beat fast.
</p>
<p>
“Now!” said Dr. Mitchell. “What have you to say to me?”
</p>
<p>
She looked up at him with confused eyes. He smiled excitedly and meaningful at
her, and came a little nearer.
</p>
<p>
“Today is the day when you answer, isn’t it?” he said. “Now then, let me hear
what you have to say.”
</p>
<p>
But she only watched him with large, troubled eyes, and did not speak. He came
still nearer to her.
</p>
<p>
“Well then,” he said, “I am to take it that silence gives consent.” And he
laughed nervously, with nervous anticipation, as he tried to put his arm round
her. But she stepped suddenly back.
</p>
<p>
“No, not yet,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Why?” he asked.
</p>
<p>
“I haven’t given my answer,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Give it then,” he said, testily.
</p>
<p>
“I’ve volunteered for active service,” she stammered. “I felt I ought to do
something.”
</p>
<p>
“Why?” he asked. He could put a nasty intonation into that monosyllable. “I
should have thought you would answer <i>me</i> first.”
</p>
<p>
She did not answer, but watched him. She did not like him.
</p>
<p>
“I only signed yesterday,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Why didn’t you leave it till tomorrow? It would have looked better.” He was
angry. But he saw a half-frightened, half-guilty look on her face, and during
the weeks of anticipation he had worked himself up.
</p>
<p>
“But put that aside,” he smiled again, a little dangerously. “You have still to
answer my question. Having volunteered for war service doesn’t prevent your
being engaged to me, does it?”
</p>
<p>
Alvina watched him with large eyes. And again he came very near to her, so that
his blue-serge waistcoat seemed, to impinge on her, and his purplish red face
was above her.
</p>
<p>
“I’d rather not be engaged, under the circumstances,” she said.
</p>
<p>
“Why?” came the nasty monosyllable. “What have the circumstances got to do with
it?”
</p>
<p>
“Everything is so uncertain,” she said. “I’d rather wait.”
</p>
<p>
“Wait! Haven’t you waited long enough? There’s nothing at all to prevent your
getting engaged to me now. Nothing whatsoever! Come now. I’m old enough not to
be played with. And I’m much too much in love with you to let you go on
indefinitely like this. Come now!” He smiled imminent, and held out his large
hand for her hand. “Let me put the ring on your finger. It will be the proudest
day of my life when I make you my wife. Give me your hand—”
</p>
<p>
Alvina was wavering. For one thing, mere curiosity made her want to see the
ring. She half lifted her hand. And but for the knowledge that he would kiss
her, she would have given it. But he would kiss her—and against that she
obstinately set her will. She put her hand behind her back, and looked
obstinately into his eyes.
</p>
<p>
“Don’t play a game with me,” he said dangerously.
</p>
<p>
But she only continued to look mockingly and obstinately into his eyes.
</p>
<p>
“Come,” he said, beckoning for her to give her hand.
</p>
<p>
With a barely perceptible shake of the head, she refused, staring at him all
the time. His ungovernable temper got the better of him. He saw red, and
without knowing, seized her by the shoulder, swung her back, and thrust her,
pressed her against the wall as if he would push her through it. His face was
blind with anger, like a hot, red sun. Suddenly, almost instantaneously, he
came to himself again and drew back his hands, shaking his right hand as if
some rat had bitten it.
</p>
<p>
“I’m sorry!” he shouted, beside himself. “I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it. I’m
sorry.” He dithered before her.
</p>
<p>
She recovered her equilibrium, and, pale to the lips, looked at him with sombre
eyes.
</p>
<p>
“I’m sorry!” he continued loudly, in his strange frenzy like a small boy.
“Don’t remember! Don’t remember! Don’t think I did it.”
</p>
<p>
His face was a kind of blank, and unconsciously he wrung the hand that had
gripped her, as if it pained him. She watched him, and wondered why on earth
all this frenzy. She was left rather cold, she did not at all feel the strong
feelings he seemed to expect of her. There was nothing so very unnatural, after
all, in being bumped up suddenly against the wall. Certainly her shoulder hurt
where he had gripped it. But there were plenty of worse hurts in the world. She
watched him with wide, distant eyes.
</p>
<p>
And he fell on his knees before her, as she backed against the bookcase, and he
caught hold of the edge of her dress-bottom, drawing it to him. Which made her
rather abashed, and much more uncomfortable.
</p>
<p>
“Forgive me!” he said. “Don’t remember! Forgive me! Love me! Love me! Forgive
me and love me! Forgive me and love me!”
</p>
<p>
As Alvina was looking down dismayed on the great, red-faced, elderly man, who
in his crying-out showed his white teeth like a child, and as she was gently
trying to draw her skirt from his clutch, the door opened, and there stood the
matron, in her big frilled cap. Alvina glanced at her, flushed crimson and
looked down to the man. She touched his face with her hand.
</p>
<p>
“Never mind,” she said. “It’s nothing. Don’t think about it.”
</p>
<p>
He caught her hand and clung to it.
</p>
<p>
“Love me! Love me! Love me!” he cried.
</p>
<p>
The matron softly closed the door again, withdrawing.
</p>
<p>
“Love me! Love me!”
</p>
<p>
Alvina was absolutely dumbfounded by this scene. She had no idea men did such
things. It did not touch her, it dumbfounded her.
</p>
<p>
The doctor, clinging to her hand, struggled to his feet and flung his arms
round her, clasping her wildly to him.
</p>
<p>
“You love me! You love me, don’t you?” he said, vibrating and beside himself as
he pressed her to his breast and hid his face against her hair. At such a
moment, what was the good of saying she didn’t? But she didn’t. Pity for his
shame, however, kept her silent, motionless and silent in his arms, smothered
against the blue-serge waistcoat of his broad breast.
</p>
<p>
He was beginning to come to himself. He became silent. But he still strained
her fast, he had no idea of letting her go.
</p>
<p>
“You will take my ring, won’t you?” he said at last, still in the strange,
lamentable voice. “You will take my ring.”
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” she said coldly. Anything for a quiet emergence from this scene.
</p>
<p>
He fumbled feverishly in his pocket with one hand, holding her still fast by
the other arm. And with one hand he managed to extract the ring from its case,
letting the case roll away on the floor. It was a diamond solitaire.
</p>
<p>
“Which finger? Which finger is it?” he asked, beginning to smile rather weakly.
She extricated her hand, and held out her engagement finger. Upon it was the
mourning-ring Miss Frost had always worn. The doctor slipped the diamond
solitaire above the mourning ring, and folded Alvina to his breast again.
</p>
<p>
“Now,” he said, almost in his normal voice. “Now I know you love me.” The
pleased self-satisfaction in his voice made her angry. She managed to extricate
herself.
</p>
<p>
“You will come along with me now?” he said.
</p>
<p>
“I can’t,” she answered. “I must get back to my work here.”
</p>
<p>
“Nurse Allen can do that.”
</p>
<p>
“I’d rather not.”
</p>
<p>
“Where are you going today?”
</p>
<p>
She told him her cases.
</p>
<p>
“Well, you will come and have tea with me. I shall expect you to have tea with
me every day.”
</p>
<p>
But Alvina was straightening her crushed cap before the mirror, and did not
answer.
</p>
<p>
“We can see as much as we like of each other now we’re engaged,” he said,
smiling with satisfaction.
</p>
<p>
“I wonder where the matron is,” said Alvina, suddenly going into the cool white
corridor. He followed her. And they met the matron just coming out of the ward.
</p>
<p>
“Matron!” said Dr. Mitchell, with a return of his old mouthing importance. “You
may congratulate Nurse Houghton and me on our engagement—” He smiled
largely.
</p>
<p>
“I may congratulate <i>you</i>, you mean,” said the matron.
</p>
<p>
“Yes, of course. And both of us, since we are now one,” he replied.
</p>
<p>
“Not quite, yet,” said the matron gravely.
</p>
<p>
And at length she managed to get rid of him.
</p>
<p>
At once she went to look for Alvina, who had gone to her duties.
</p>
<p>
“Well, I <i>suppose</i> it is all right,” said the matron gravely.
</p>
<p>
“No it isn’t,” said Alvina. “I shall <i>never</i> marry him.”
</p>
<p>
“Ah, never is a long while! Did he hear me come in?”
</p>
<p>
“No, I’m sure he didn’t.”
</p>
<p>
“Thank goodness for that.”
</p>
<p>
“Yes indeed! It was perfectly horrible. Following me round on his knees and
shouting for me to love him! Perfectly horrible!”
</p>
<p>
“Well,” said the matron. “You never know what men will do till you’ve known
them. And then you need be surprised at nothing, <i>nothing</i>. I’m surprised
at nothing they do—”
</p>
<p>
“I must say,” said Alvina, “I was surprised. Very unpleasantly.”
</p>
<p>
“But you accepted him—”
</p>
<p>
“Anything to quieten him—like a hysterical child.”
</p>
<p>
“Yes, but I’m not sure you haven’t taken a very risky way of quietening him,
giving him what he wanted—”
</p>
<p>
“I think,” said Alvina, “I can look after myself. I may be moved any day now.”
</p>
<p>
“Well—!” said the matron. “He may prevent your getting moved, you know.
He’s on the board. And if he says you are indispensable—”
</p>
<p>
This was a new idea for Alvina to cogitate. She had counted on a speedy escape.
She put his ring in her apron pocket, and there she forgot it until he pounced
on her in the afternoon, in the house of one of her patients. He waited for
her, to take her off.
</p>
<p>
“Where is your ring?” he said.
</p>
<p>
And she realized that it lay in the pocket of a soiled, discarded
apron—perhaps lost for ever.
</p>
<p>
“I shan’t wear it on duty,” she said. “You know that.”
</p>
<p>
She had to go to tea with him. She avoided his love-making, by telling him any
sort of spooniness revolted her. And he was too much an old bachelor to take
easily to a fondling habit—before marriage, at least. So he mercifully
left her alone: he was on the whole devoutly thankful she wanted to be left
alone. But he wanted her to be there. That was his greatest craving. He wanted
her to be always there. And so he craved for marriage: to possess her entirely,
and to have her always there with him, so that he was never alone. Alone and
apart from all the world: but by her side, always by her side.
</p>
<p>
“Now when shall we fix the marriage?” he said. “It is no good putting it back.
We both know what we are doing. And now the engagement is announced—”
</p>
<p>
He looked at her anxiously. She could see the hysterical little boy under the
great, authoritative man.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, not till after Christmas!” she said.
</p>
<p>
“After Christmas!” he started as if he had been bitten. “Nonsense! It’s
nonsense to wait so long. Next month, at the latest.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh no,” she said. “I don’t think so soon.”
</p>
<p>
“Why not? The sooner the better. You had better send in your resignation at
once, so that you’re free.”
</p>
<p>
“Oh but is there any need? I may be transferred for war service.”
</p>
<p>
“That’s not likely. You’re our only maternity nurse—”
</p>
<p>
And so the days went by. She had tea with him practically every afternoon, and
she got used to him. They discussed the furnishing—she could not help
suggesting a few alterations, a few arrangements according to <i>her</i> idea.
And he drew up a plan of a wedding tour in Scotland. Yet she was quite certain
she would not marry him. The matron laughed at her certainty. “You will drift
into it,” she said. “He is tying you down by too many little threads.”
</p>
<p>
“Ah, well, you’ll see!” said Alvina.
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” said the matron. “I <i>shall</i> see.”
</p>
<p>
And it was true that Alvina’s will was indeterminate, at this time. She was
<i>resolved</i> not to marry. But her will, like a spring that is hitched
somehow, did not fly direct against the doctor. She had sent in her
resignation, as he suggested. But not that she might be free to marry him, but
that she might be at liberty to flee him. So she told herself. Yet she worked
into his hands.
</p>
<p>
One day she sat with the doctor in the car near the station—it was
towards the end of September—held up by a squad of soldiers in khaki, who
were marching off with their band wildly playing, to embark on the special
troop train that was coming down from the north. The town was in great
excitement. War-fever was spreading everywhere. Men were rushing to
enlist—and being constantly rejected, for it was still the days of
regular standards.
</p>
<p>
As the crowds surged on the pavement, as the soldiers tramped to the station,
as the traffic waited, there came a certain flow in the opposite direction. The
4:15 train had come in. People were struggling along with luggage, children
were running with spades and buckets, cabs were crawling along with families:
it was the seaside people coming home. Alvina watched the two crowds mingle.
</p>
<p>
And as she watched she saw two men, one carrying a mandoline case and a
suit-case which she knew. It was Ciccio. She did not know the other man; some
theatrical individual. The two men halted almost near the car, to watch the
band go by. Alvina saw Ciccio quite near to her. She would have liked to squirt
water down his brown, handsome, oblivious neck. She felt she hated him. He
stood there, watching the music, his lips curling in his faintly-derisive
Italian manner, as he talked to the other man. His eyelashes were as long and
dark as ever, his eyes had still the attractive look of being set in with a
smutty finger. He had got the same brownish suit on, which she disliked, the
same black hat set slightly, jauntily over one eye. He looked common: and yet
with that peculiar southern aloofness which gave him a certain beauty and
distinction in her eyes. She felt she hated him, rather. She felt she had been
let down by him.
</p>
<p>
The band had passed. A child ran against the wheel of the standing car. Alvina
suddenly reached forward and made a loud, screeching flourish on the hooter.
Every one looked round, including the laden, tramping soldiers.
</p>
<p>
“We can’t move yet,” said Dr. Mitchell.
</p>
<p>
But Alvina was looking at Ciccio at that moment. He had turned with the rest,
looking inquiringly at the car. And his quick eyes, the whites of which showed
so white against his duskiness, the yellow pupils so non-human, met hers with a
quick flash of recognition. His mouth began to curl in a smile of greeting. But
she stared at him without moving a muscle, just blankly stared, abstracting
every scrap of feeling, even of animosity or coldness, out of her gaze. She saw
the smile die on his lips, his eyes glance sideways, and again sideways, with
that curious animal shyness which characterized him. It was as if he did not
want to see her looking at him, and ran from side to side like a caged weasel,
avoiding her blank, glaucous look.
</p>
<p>
She turned pleasantly to Dr. Mitchell.
</p>
<p>
“What did you say?” she asked sweetly.
</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
